---
title: "OOPs I Objected Again"
date: 2024-08-01
---

Since I'm diving back into the world of Object-Oriented Programming, I figured it's about time for a refresher on what 
it is all about. While javaScript is an Object-Oriented language, I don't think I was utilizing its object-oriented
nature very much, so coming to java has been a small learning curve. 

### Features of Object-Oriented Programming

1.	Objects and Classes: OOP revolves around the concept of objects, which are instances of classes. Classes define the 
blueprint for objects, encapsulating data and behavior.
2.	Encapsulation: This principle involves bundling the data (attributes) and methods (functions) that operate on the 
data into a single unit or class.
3.	Inheritance: Classes can inherit properties and behaviors from other classes, promoting code reuse and hierarchical 
relationships.
4.	Polymorphism: Objects can be treated as instances of their parent class rather than their actual class, allowing for 
flexibility and the ability to use a common interface.
5.	Abstraction: Hiding the complex implementation details and showing only the essential features of the object.

### Features of Functional Programming

1.	Pure Functions: Functions have no side effects and return the same result given the same arguments, ensuring predictability.
2. Immutability: Data is immutable, meaning it cannot be changed once created. This leads to more predictable and bug-free code.
3.	First-Class and Higher-Order Functions: Functions are treated as first-class citizens, meaning they can be assigned 
to variables, passed as arguments, and returned from other functions. Higher-order functions are functions that take 
other functions as arguments or return them.
4.	Declarative Approach: FP emphasizes describing what to do rather than how to do it, leading to more concise and 
readable code.
5.	Recursion: FP relies on recursion rather than iterative loops for repetition.

