---
title: "Remove"
date: 2024-06-26
---

This week's IPM went spectacular. For the first time ever I didn't fumble my way through the presentation. It also
seems like the extra time I allocated for refactoring paid off. I'm still not sure if I have estimation fully
down, but it is definitely getting better. Because estimations are so task specific it's hard to know what ya don't
know... ya know?

### Remove

`remove` is actually a very easy function to understand and use, but it is one I didn't realize existed until today. Any 
time I've wanted to remove something from a collection I've used the `filter` function. These two functions do the same
thing, except for one key difference.

The first argument to be passed into these functions (the filter conditions) filters out anything that evaluates to
`false` that gets passed through the argument.

```clojure
(filter even? [0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9])
=> (0 2 4 6 8)
```

The first argument in the remove function filters out anything that evaluates to `true`.
```clojure
(remove even? [0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9])
=> (1 3 5 7 9)
```

Before learning of the `remove` function, any time I wanted to remove something, I would wrap the argument in a `not`
statement to get the result I wanted.

```clojure
(filter #(not (even? %)) [0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9])
=> (1 3 5 7 9)
```
(This example may be a little dramatic, I'd just use `odd?` here, but I wanted to make this simple for the 
explanation’s sake).

While this certainly works, it's unnecessary and much harder to read. It feels laughable now to look back and see how
easy it was to get my intended results with the change of one word, but as I said before, it's hard to know what ya
don't know... ya know?