---
title: "Testing for Random"
date: 2024-06-28
---

I have my easy function made, and honestly figuring out a test to write for it was harder than writing the code. (This
seems to be a recurring theme with me and Test Driven Development).

The function is 3 lines of code, and one of those lines is just for readability.

```clojure
(defn update-board-easy [board]
  (let [available-moves (core/get-available-moves board)]
    (core/update-board (rand-nth available-moves) board)))
```

`core/get-available-moves` takes a board (sequence of numbers and either string "X" or "O") and filters out anything 
that is not a number.

I wrote a [detailed post](https://scoopsies.github.io/finding-clojure/2024/06/27/rand-nth.html "rand-nth") about 
`rand-nth` yesterday in case you missed it.


This was all easy to write... Most of it was already written by me weeks ago! The part I had to reach out for help on
was how to test for random. My mentor Alex gave me a nice shift in perspective when I asked about it. Testing for random
isn't what we're really trying to do here. We know that rand-nth works, it's an official clojure.core function. What we
need to test is that our function is working as intended. In order to accomplish this, I needed the random number to be
something consistent in my tests. I managed to get this done with the `with-redefs` function.

```clojure
(it "returns a random valid move on empty board"
      (with-redefs [rand-nth (stub :rand-nth {:return 0})]
        (should= ["X" 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8] (sut/update-board-easy (range 9)))))
```

`with-redefs` lets us redefine a function inside a function. Its syntax is similar to `let`. First word in the bracket
is the binding, the second is what you want to change. In our case above we used `stub` to make the return of `rand-nth`
to consistently be 0.

Now that we have consistent outputs, we have consistent tests!

