---
title: "Networking... The Social Kind not the Computer Kind"
date: 2024-10-15
---

Today I got had the opportunity to go to a local conference with a few other Clean Coders coworkers to represent our
company. I had a chance to put into words why clean coders is such an exceptional company, not only because of our core
values and practices, but also because we actually follow those values and practices and meet quite a few people that we 
do business with, and a few more that we don't do business with (yet...). In my previous career I was a sales manager for
a local brewery. My entire job was to meet people and build relationships. I never really put much thought into the 
importance of it until today so I decided to make a list of reasons networking is important for not only yourself, but 
for the company you work for also.

### 1. Building Relationships (that actually matter)

At the end of the day, business is all about people. Networking helps us meet new folks—whether they’re potential clients, 
partners, or just industry friends. The more we connect, the more opportunities open up for collaborations, new projects, 
or even referrals.

The goal isn’t to collect as many contacts as possible, but to build real, meaningful relationships that can lead to 
great things over time. You never know when one chance encounter may lead to something great (that's how I got this
apprenticeship after all).

### 2. Learning What’s New in Our Industry

Things change fast in business especially in software, and networking helps us stay on top of the latest trends and 
innovations. Whether we’re attending a conference, joining a webinar, or just chatting with people in our industry, we 
can get a feel for what’s coming next.

The more we know about what’s happening around us, the better we can adapt and stay ahead of the curve.

### 3. Opening the Door to New Opportunities

One of the biggest perks of networking is that it can lead to new business opportunities. Whether it’s meeting a 
potential client, discovering a new market, or finding a partner for a joint venture, the possibilities are endless.

The more we put ourselves out there, the more chances we create for new opportunities that can help our company grow.

### 4. Getting Our Name Out There

Networking is also a great way to build our company’s reputation. The more active we are in the business 
community—whether through attending events, speaking on panels, or just being visible—the more people will recognize our 
name and associate us with expertise and trust.

It’s not just about making a sale right then and there. It’s about becoming a name people think of when they need the 
services we offer.

### 5. Learning From Others’ Experience

Networking isn’t just about promoting ourselves. It’s a two-way street. By talking to other professionals, we can learn 
from their successes (and their mistakes). This helps us avoid pitfalls and come up with new ideas for how to run our 
business.

There’s always something new to learn, and networking gives us a chance to tap into other people’s experience and 
knowledge.

### 6. Attracting Great Talent

Networking doesn’t just help with finding clients or partners—it can also help us attract talented people to join our 
team. The more visible we are in our industry, the more attractive we become to professionals looking for a new 
opportunity.

By building a solid network, we can tap into a pool of talented people who might be interested in working with us.

### 7. Finding Mentors and Advisors

Finally, networking gives us access to people who have been there and done that. Having mentors or advisors in our 
network can be a game-changer, providing guidance and advice when we need it most. Whether it’s navigating a tough 
business decision or getting feedback on a new idea, having experienced people in our corner is invaluable.