---
title: "Interface Segregation Principle"
date: 2024-06-25
---

If you thought the refactoring was over. You'd be wrong. I spent my morning doing more refactoring. I think it's the
perfect way to start my day (after doing a koan). Because of all the tests I've written due to following TDD guidelines
while developing, it makes it so its kind of hard to mess up too badly while refactoring. It's also good to help warm up
my brain in the morning (I am far from a morning person). 

After I finished refactoring for the day I put together my Interface segregation presentation. And what a coincidence,
that just so happens to be the subject of the day!

### Interface Segregation Principle

Have you ever used a Swiss Army knife and found it cumbersome because you only needed a screwdriver?

The Interface Segregation principle is like using only the tools you need,
Rather than carrying around a bulky multi-tool with features you never
Use.

The Interface Segregation Principle states that a client should not be forced to depend on interfaces it does not use. 
In software design , this means breaking down large, cumbersome interfaces into smaller, more specific ones.

Creating smaller, more focused interfaces ensures that classes only implement the methods they need.

Imagine carrying a Multi-tool which has a knife, pliers, bottle opener, screwdriver, and many other tools. If all you 
need is a screwdriver, carrying the entire multi-tool is overkill and can be cumbersome.,

Now imagine you have a small lightweight screwdriver. It’s easy to carry and use because it only servers the purpose you 
need. This is like having specific interfaces in programming. Each interface is small and focus on a particular task, 
making it easier to implement and manage.

In software a large interface might have methods for printing, scanning, faxing and copying. If you only need printing 
functionality, implementing an interface with all these methods is like carrying the entire multi-tool. Instead, 
breaking it down into  print, scan, fax, and copy interfaces allows a class to implement only what it needs, similar to 
carrying just a screwdriver.

Using specific tools makes your work more efficient and manageable, just like carrying only the tools you need.

Increased flexibility, easier maintenance, improved code readability, and enhanced reusability. 

The interface segregation principle helps us design cleaner and more maintainable software by ensuring that clients only 
depend on the methods they use, much like carrying only the specific tools we need rather than a bulky multi-tool.

Next time you’re designing an interface, think about whether you’re creating a  Swiss Army Knife or a set of specific, 
efficient tools. Adopting the Interface Segregation principle can make your code more elegant and efficient.